Thank you for considering me as the Landels-Hill Big Creek Reserve Steward. 

Currently I serve UC Berkeley Earth and Planetary Science. I am an unmarried male without children, in excellent physical condition. My significant other travels extensively and is primarily located in Berkeley, Los Angeles and Sicily. While reading I hope you agree that The Reserve Steward post would be an excellent fit.

I'm an extremely adaptive person. I've travelled and lived all over the world. My work experience domestically and abroad has taught me to endure and perservere and thrive. Reading the job description for Steward has my mind racing through all of the work I've done in my life. 

If I may begin with some "heavier" examples. I've run chainsaws for at least 500 hours, and state-of-the-art brush-clearing saws upwards to 600 hours. When I was much younger my grandfather taught me to operate a backhoe. I can operate bobcat front loaders and probably any tooling extension on a bobcat. I would be delighted to learn how to operate any other heavy machinery or vehicle.

Incidently after years of brush-clearing and working on tree crews I became fully immune to poison oak. My first large bid was clearing poison oak directly over the east entrance of Caldecott Tunnel in Orinda, CA. This was for a surveying project on private land. I've cut fire buffer zones on all sorts of properties, primarily in the Berkeley-Oakland critical area following the hills fire of 1991.

I can operate any power boat up to say 30 feet, and longer with some practice. I grew up around marinas and sailing clubs just south of New York Harbour. I can sail hobie cats and 420 racing class boats including crewing on the trapeze; as well as larger vessels. I can operate ski boats and I'm an accomplished water skier.

Presently I preside over a wood and metal shop at Earth and Planetary Science. I can operate the table saw, band saw, drill press, and with some guidance a mill. Also I have competence with numerous power and hand tools, including my favorite tool ever: a wood splitting maul. 

I'm not a journeyman but have confidence around all sorts of tools and machinery. You see, I grew up in my family's car dealership and around horse farms, and these things are second nature.

Presently my primary job title is Field Coordinator and Safety Liaison. Working on the UC Berkeley Staff, I have maintained my training on all sensitive issues that are crucial to UC culture. This includes harassment, gender and race awareness, and computer security. Also through the UC Police I participated in Active Shooter Response training.  

I've worked as a fund-raising writer for the US Holocaust Museum and various ballets and zoos. In Japan I worked as an editor and teacher.

I have a citation of bravery for saving life, from the Japanese Government. Also I hold a BA in English from UC Berkeley.

I've visited the Amazon in Peru and the upper rain forests of the Amazon in Colombia; and traveled widely in Brazil. In Putamayo, Colombia I am supporting the indigenous Cofan tribe: one of their small schools which teaches standard subjects as well as botany and plant shamanism. I support a brilliant shaman there named Omar. 
--------------------------------------
xx xx 
If I may suggest working for Earth and Planetary Science has naturally furthered my understanding of depth ecology. In recent years I've grown interested in mycology. I've always had a mind for the natural sciences. I am just devastated by what is happening to our planet. Our species' survival requires not only the collaboration of the academic sciences and the involvement of every citizen, but a near-shamanic understanding of the world. As the Reserve Steward, I could distill what I know and focus my intuitive and intellectual powers as I learn the position. And perhaps I would have the opportunity to split some wood.

I would be so delighted to serve in this capacity.  

Thank you,
John Werner









